Hello mentoring students and welcome to this review in which I will show you how to model and simulate
the courts are a core model first.
What is meant by a co-author or model author or car model is used to model and simulate the suspension
system of a vehicle.
It assumes that we have four corners of a car and we are modelling only one corner.
As you can see in this picture we have here is a Chelsea was M.C. this.
Chelsea have a motion of why C of t the Chelsea is connected to is a wheel via suspension system and
the spring was a stiffness equals to K1 the number with them being coefficient equals to C1 the suspension
system has mass M.S. we have K two which is the stiffness of its higher and c 2 which is a damning coefficient
of Hitler we will neglect C to for this example so please take care of that the suspension system moves
was y as with T and we have ambled from Brood X of t it may be step input or a sine wave and we can
consider the suspension system as two masses blocks M.C. an M S M C is connected to M S V K one C one
and it moves was y c of T M suspension moves with Y as with T and the tire stiffness equals two key
to and then the coefficient of thirty equals to see to which in our case equals to zero.
So let's see the equation of motion for this system by balancing the forces on AMC we have M.S. Y see
the plot blocks C1 y c dot plus k 1 y c equals to see one Y is not lost k 1 y s for the suspension mass
we have m s why s them a lot plus C1 Y is thought plus K two plus key one times Y S equals to see one
y c dot plus k 1 y c plus key two times input x arranging this equation will make it easier to model
this system owns a similar link so y see the will dot equals to 1 over M.S. times C1 times y s not minus
why C not plus k 1 times Y S minus Y C the second equation y is double Delta equals 2 1 over M.S. times
minus C1 times why s not minus why is he not minus K Juan times Y S minus Y C plus K two times x minus
y s so as we have stated in the previous example we have Y C double dot B will integrate this for the
first time to produce y c dot and we will integrate it again to produce Y C which is the response of
the chassis and also for Y is the block we will integrate it two times two got Y as or the suspension
movement and we will feedback y c dot Y C and also Y is not Y S in order to complete the model.
So lets see this on the Sigma link
as you can see I have created a new model from the semi link blocks library I will add the following
blocks from continuous system I will add integrator
from syncs I will add a scoop from commonly use blocks I will add gain and also I will add some
from sources I will add the step input
let's move this from here
I have created and file this and file contains all the values of the different variables so I have M.S.
equals to 60 kg which is quarter of the Chelsea Mass I have m for suspension equals 212 KG I have K1
for the suspension system equals 223 Newton per mm and then B coefficient of C1 equals to thirty Newton
second over mm and the stiffness of the third K two equals two seven hundred so I will run the script
change folder and if I get back to the workspace I will find that the different values for our variables
now pack to our model the first equation we have here one over M.S.
Where is this this signal here is why C double dot if I integrated this signal for the first time I
will produce Y see what I want to copy this poker game.
So again if I integrate it twice he thought it will produce Y C and now scoop
so this is the first equation
the second equation I have here one over m s
and also I will have two integrators so I'm Kobe and drags them and wires a signal here and this one
here and another scoop wires is here.
So this signal here is why is the blue dot integrating things a signal will produce Y is not integrating
again produces y s and the school to look at the graph of Y es now in order to complete the model we
need to add some mission point
by looking at the equation we have Y see the blue dot equals to one over M.S. times see 1 times Y has
thought minus Y see dot so this C1 y s dot minus why is he dot is repeated in post equation so I will
take a signal from y s dot and subtracted from Y see Dot signal and multiply them times see one and
I will use this in post equation so first I will flip this block
and I will take the signal
this is why C that and this is why it stopped and I need to change a sign.
Why is he locked is in minus
and the output of the signal will be multiplied to a game clock which is key one.
So I will copies this right click and flip.
This is key one
and I will Ed Olmos or some plot
right click and I will flip
I will change the shape of this block to rectangle
and plus plus now.
OK all expenses again looking at the equation we have to some see one times Y as not minus Y.
See that plus key 1 times Y is minus y c.
So I need to make Q1 times Y S minus y c.
Again I will copy this block.
I will think is a signal of Y S and minus here and the signal of Y C
and almost all gain.
So is this one is C 1 not k 1 but this one is K one
now.
To complete the model I would wire k 1 signal here and C1 signal here.
So now I have developed the first equation in order to build a second equation.
I will add almost or some pluck so I would copy this one
this far this year and whereas this one here.
We need to subtract signal c 1 times why still minus Y see Dot and signal K one finds Y S minus Y C
and add them to the signal K two times x minus y s
so first I will change the sign of this block to minus minus plus
Okay I will take signal from here and one or two minus
and from the signal also and two minus.
Now I need to make the signal off key two times x minus y is so this is a step in but
and I will copy this block.
This is key to
and I will copy some point
step and what is in surplus and I will take a signal from Y S and minus and the output signal is multiplied
to k to then the output of the signal is added to this point.
Now we have build a second equation I will change a step and put two.
For example 30 which means a pump of certain millimeters.
And now I can run as a modern
double click the scoop to see the response of the Chelsea as you can see after one second we hits a
pump of certainty that Chelsea is up to maybe forty two and because of is of them being as emotion is
being dammed if I look at the response of the suspension
this is the response of the suspension we have some oscillation until tempt I can change the value of
the then being coefficient for example to 20
and I will runs on model again.
Now let's see is the response of the Chelsea again in motion is being damped and this is the response
of the tyre we have also some oscillation that's for example tried to increase that I mean coefficient
from runs a model and check the response of the suspension system now as you can see is isolation is
almost come and this is also the response of the testing we have here are some isolation this is all
forces with you thank you guys for watching.
In the next review we are going to look at the same problem but this time instead of modeling it in
time domain we will model it in its domain using transfer functions.
So see you there.